Jordan Peterson claims to be a scientist
he claims to be a man of science but the
political ideology he presents to the
world is really a dangerous mix of
religion just straight-up bigotry and
pseudoscience we have a bit of a sad
lesson in seeing the ways in which the
next generation then takes his
pseudo-scientific attitudes and does
something even more dangerous with them
quote this is my mom after almost a year
of meanly beef and some chicken
she also rarely has lobster and really
has butter paws if you don't know the
situation here michaei leah peterson
decided to get in shape and lose the
baby weight after her pregnancy by
eating a 100% meat diet she inspired her
parents to also eat a 100% meat diet her
husband to eat a 100% me diet and one I
say a hundred percent meat I mean no
green vegetables no bread no pasta just
meat and I don't know if she is feeding
her infant if she's feeding her own baby
a hundred percent meat but she posts a
lot of pictures the Internet of her
feeding this small baby meat so whether
or not it's a hundred percent I cannot
yet say oh but but look at this
she just observes that her mother had
these problems and then here's the
highlighted text in 2015 I realized it
was probably celiac disease and she got
rid of the rest of the little bits of
gluten 200 you realize it was celiac
disease does that sound like science to
you does that sound like science to
anyone is that how you think the world
works that you just make up your mind
that your mom has celiac disease or do
you think that's something there'd be an
empirically real verifiable falsifiable
scientific process for feeling better
after changing your diet is not a basis
for concluding that you have celiac
disease my grandfather had celiac
disease and he probably died quite a bit
younger than he should have for that
reason partly because he compensated by
eating quite a lot of red
I'm up to 50% of people celiac disease
or asymptomatic
serological investigation alone is
insufficient to make the diagnosis
serological means blood tests in plain
English genotype testing is useful but
doesn't confirm the diagnosis definitive
diagnosis requires gastroscopy and
duodenum biopsy an empirical trial of a
gluten-free diet has no role in the
diagnosis of celiac disease you can see
where this article comes from from the
URL at the top of the screenshot gee
that that alone sounds like science
disrespect but the fact is that you know
my name is I don't know truth I'm making
an effort here not to sound like I'm
giving a sermon but in this case it's
hard because the purpose of this video
is to question the noxious and dangerous
ideology that Jordan Peterson has
propounded to the whole world in
ideologies that's very obviously had
negative effects within his own family
for his own wife and most tragically for
his own daughter I don't want to sound
like I'm giving a sermon but the
fundamental problem with a lie is not
that it's untrue
the problem with lies is that they
resemble the truth enough to influence
human decisions human behavior human
actions the fundamental danger of
pseudoscience is not the extent to which
it is unscientific it's not the extent
to which it's non-scientific the problem
with pseudoscience is the extent to
which it resembles real science and
influences human actions with tragic
consequences for us all
McKay Leah Peterson was raised by Jordan
Peterson she was raised to believe that
depression is something biologically
real that exists in her body and that
can be treated with a mad
pill I used the word magic advisedly I
see this with all due sympathy as
someone who was raised by parents who
had their own insane ideology who
inculcated lies and half-truths into me
but let's pause to imagine for one
moment just how difficult it would be
from achillea peterson just how
difficult would be for some true
believers in jordan Peterson's audience
to now question and reject the cultic
pseudo-scientific
and debunked notions about depression
that jordan Peterson still propels and
popularizes how difficult it would be
from achillea peterson to then question
the idea that her depression was caused
by eating bread and that it was cured by
eating a 100% beef diet her belief her
fad diet that she's propounding it is
pseudoscience it is crazy it is insane
but it's pseudoscience built on top of
the pseudoscience that her father taught
her from her earliest childhood onward
half the time I spend with my clients
who are depressed is often the two years
long attempt to get them to tentatively
try an antidepressant because they're so
guilty that they're relying on an
external crutch to sort out their lives
that they can't even tolerate it but you
know I say well look man what if you had
diabetes you're not gonna take your
insulin it's like try it
for God's sake you'll know in a month
and you just stop if it doesn't work if
you look at the published trials you'll
find that three out of four of them show
a significant benefit of drug versus
placebo if you look at the unpublished
trials that shrinks 12%
now we had the published trials the
unpublished trials we put them all
together we did the same kind of
analysis that we did before and we get
this nice healthy response on average to
get being given the antidepressant drug
and of an even bigger response i'm well
SIBO now it's a placebo response not
sasebo effect but we know that that
counts for relatively little the the the
spontaneous remission the natural
history the placebo response is now
accounted for eighty-two percent of the
response to the active drug and the
difference between drug and approval is
less than two points on the Hamilton
scale now the Hamilton scale can you can
have scores ranging from zero to fifty
three points you can get a six point
difference just by changes in sleep
patterns with no changes in any other
symptom of depression that's a small
difference and you don't have to take my
word for it because there's an
organization in England called the
National Institute of Health and
Clinical Excellence the acronym is nice
and they're very nice organization what
they do is to set treatment guidelines
for the National Health Service and in
revising their treatment guidelines they
have established a criteria for clinical
significance for saying that a drug is
not only statistically but clinically
better than a placebo and that's a
three-point difference on the Hamilton
depression scale or an effect size of
0.5 and as you see that comes nowhere
close so we went back to our data and we
look at looked at what drugs were the
patients in these studies ah
somewhere on tricyclics somewhere on
assess our eyes somewhere on other
antidepressants and we did em ILO
inhibitors and things like that and we
found there were some other drugs in
there too there was some studies that
were looking
things like barbiturates and
benzodiazepine and lithium for not for
unipolar depression and thyroid
medications for people without a thyroid
disorder unipolar depressed patients and
in case after case three-quarters of the
response of the drug was duplicated by
placebo it didn't matter whether was a
try cyclic an SSRI some other
antidepressant or even something that's
not conventionally considered an
antidepressant and there's yet another
drug that we should take into account
that I don't have up here and that is
TNF T how many of you have heard of TNF
t very few TNF teen is a drug that is
has been approved by French regulators
and it is marketed in France and a
number of other countries as an
antidepressant
the most common antidepressants these
days are SSRIs selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitors TNF teen is an SSR
II it's a selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors are eyes are supposed to do
instead of inhibiting the reuptake so
that there's more serotonin available in
the synapses it's supposed to enhance
reuptake so that there's less serotonin
available in the synapses were there any
truth to the serotonin theory of
depression and I don't know a
responsible researcher in the area that
still contends there is it's only in
marketing these they'll see that talked
about were there any truth to that
SSRIs art should not help people recover
from depression it ought to make them
depressed here's what it does
in head-to-head trials against both
SSRIs and imipramine and tricyclics so
what do you call pills the effects of
which are independent of their chemical
composition and they should be taken
with a grain of salt
[Music]